The \ac{RMA} routines described in this section are one-sided communication
mechanisms of the \openshmem{} \ac{API}. While using these mechanisms, the user
is required to provide parameters only on the calling side. A characteristic of
one-sided communication is that it decouples communication from the
synchronization. One-sided communication mechanisms transfer the data but do not
synchronize the sender of the data with the receiver of the data. 

\openshmem{} \ac{RMA} routines are all performed on the symmetric objects.  The
initiator \ac{PE} of the call is designated as \source{}, and the \ac{PE} in
which memory is accessed is designated as \dest{}. In the case of the remote
update routine, \PUT{}, the origin is the \source{} \ac{PE} and the destination
\ac{PE} is the \dest{} PE. In the case of the remote read routine, \GET{}, the
origin is the \dest{} \ac{PE} and the destination is the \source{} \ac{PE}.

\openshmem{} provides three different types of one-sided communication
interfaces.  \FUNC{shmem\_put$<$bits$>$} interface transfers data in chunks of
bits. \FUNC{shmem\_put32}, for example, copies data to a \dest{} \ac{PE} in
chunks of 32 bits. \FUNC{shmem\_$<$datatype$>$\_put} interface copies elements
of type \textit{datatype} from a \source{} \ac{PE} to a \dest{} \ac{PE}.  For
example, \FUNC{shmem\_integer\_put}, copies elements of type integer from a
\source{} \ac{PE} to a \dest{} \ac{PE}.  \FUNC{shmem\_$<$datatype$>$\_p}
interface is similar to \FUNC{shmem\_$<$datatype$>$\_put} except that it only
transfers one element of type \VAR{datatype}.

\openshmem{} provides interfaces for transferring both contiguous and
non-contiguous data. The non-contiguous data transfer interfaces are prefixed
with ``\VAR{i}". \FUNC{shmem\_$<$datatype$>$\_iput} interface, for example,
copies strided data elements from the \source{} \ac{PE} to a \dest{} \ac{PE}. 
